Um, Kolb.
Philip Kolb.
One L and Philip.
Pardon me?
I think so, yeah.
I think so.
K-O-L-B?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, he was a French professor here.
His daughter now teaches at Smith, actually.
Really?
And when was this?
Mm-hmm.
When did he do this?
Oh, Nancy, when was Kolb here?
When did he collect his proof?
He died two years ago, and he's been working with proofs for about four years.
Okay.
He'd go over to Paris in the summer, the way I get, and he'd buy a letter for $30 here, $20 there.
Now, at auction, they're, you know, $10,000 a piece.
Do you get anything written on this?
I don't think so, and this is an interesting story.
Or Carl Lee.
It's a good story.
Was he acquiring for the university or for himself, and then did he give it to the university?
Nancy, did he acquire for himself and then give it, or did he...?
He made that he was there and was 100 times working in a business at National and scouring around trying to find others for us to buy.
Okay.
He bought some for himself, but then later he gave them to us.
So is it called the Philip Kolb?
It's called the Kolb Proust Archive.
That's great.
And how many items?
Boy, how many letters do we have?
It's a lot.
And who are the letters to?
I mean, are they... Oh, very... I mean, everybody.
You are going to have to visit the archive.
I mean, you're going to have to go on to Carlene because... Is Carlene there?
Yes.
She's expecting... Tom's not going to be there, does she?
And this is something that you're scanning and you're making available?
Yeah.
And it's very generous of the university to do that.
A lot of universities... I know.
That's what's neat about this place.
The University of Texas would ever do that with...
We're doing here, there's going to be a huge conference here.
We're going to have a huge boost seminar here in whatever that anniversary year is, 2000.
We're going to have a huge conference.
We're going to have an exhibition at Krannert Art Museum, another exhibit up here.
We're loaning things to the end.
You should have a statement that Bob wrote on Access that was published in the university newsletter last year.
Do you know the one I'm talking about?
I do, but I can't say it.
I don't know where you're going to get it.
We have to get all this stuff together and send it to you, Nick.
That's fine.
I'd love to, just before we forget, that Des Moines statement.
Oh, yeah, the Freedom to Read statement.
Yeah.
the cold thing is interesting because we went to auction last year actually November of 96 to get the proof letters that were finally released that were about his homosexuality and they were front page on New York Times and everything and we and actually our university librarian Bob Wedgworth told me to go ahead and try to get him and so we hired an agent and she tried to get him and the interesting story there is that
She called me from London, and she said there were about 60 people sitting in this room, and one phone call, and one person.
To this day, Anonymous bought every single letter.
And all these people were sitting there waiting for the business.
How long ago?
This was in November of 96.
So it couldn't have been Carlton Lake.
We don't know who it is.
Somebody knows.
I mean, I'm sure that somebody knows, but we do know it wasn't the Bibliotech Nacional.
We know it was a private collector.
The bibliotech now, through the auction house, asked this person, look, we don't know who you are, but could we copy these or something?
And he or she said no.
With a letter of copy.
No.
It's terrible.
Business person making an investment.
Totally anti-intellectual.
Exactly.
But what this prompted me to do is we just did a joint purchase of a manuscript with the Newberry Library because the Newberry couldn't afford it and we couldn't afford it.
And I said, you know,
We have to keep these things out of private hands and get them into public, sort of public institutions.
We'll do it.
We'll do it whatever way we can.
So we did it.
What did you buy in your area of Newbury?
We bought a manuscript.
14th century?
Yeah, 14th century.
It was earlier than it, wasn't it?
No.
Nancy, is that 14th century, that manuscript?
That's 14th century.
I can give you a newsletter about that.
Okay, but how did you come to the... Because I have a friend there.
It's a network.
We all, like Lynn said, there's a network of us out there, and I have a friend.
And he and I had lunch one day, and he said, hey, let's buy some stuff together.
That's really quite revolutionary.
It is.
It's great.
That's another story, because apparently it is revolutionary.
When I was accepted into the Grollier Club, that's what they interviewed me about, is how did you do this?
And it's a public institution and a private institution.
And I said, well, you know, we just did it.
We just had the attorneys worry about all the weaknesses.
Because after that Proust experience, I said to myself, this is not going to happen again, you know.
And this manuscript is being used.
I mean, we have a student in our history who is actively using that manuscript.
And I have a call from the Newberry.
They want it, because somebody there wants to use it.
So where is the permanent home, or is this wherever it is?
The permanent home is at, let's see, it's eight months.
It's in Newton, right?
It's two-thirds of the time at the Newberry and one-third here.
They must have put in two-thirds of the money, is that right?
Yeah.
But we're kind of loose about the whole thing.
I can't tell you how much we paid, by the way.
Was it at auction?
No, no.
It was through a private dealer.
And when was this?
In, let's see, about a year ago.
Yeah, it's really neat.
It's a genealogy roll.
Is there anything that you want to see that you want to show?
It's up to you.
I mean, it's a rare book.
Because we have 35 minutes now to go see Cole Proust and then go see Beth.
And he wants to see the stacks.
I really want to see nine million books.
You do.
Yeah.
We should probably go to the stacks right now.
That's my kind of thing.
Yeah, we'll go up and see Carly.
I just wondered.
Okay, this is good.
Well, we can talk.
Sure.
Should I inscribe that book?
Yes.
And if you want to see... Is this your book?
This is the book for the... Oh, okay.